# Short description of how to generate this example dataset

Assume that we have six accessions/species/samples, The example data were simulated from a random true species tree. This true species tree is arbitrarily determined as "((A:0.12,B:0.23):0.45,(C:0.34,(D:0.19,(E:0.25,F:0.29):0.31):0.28):0.53);" Then, I simulated 10 gene trees using SimPhy (https://github.com/adamallo/SimPhy/) based on the configuration file in $ROOT/example/simulation/ Here, I specified the rate variation of genes as a log-normal distribution with mean as -1.1 and sigma as 0.2. Then, I used seq-gen to simulate the molecular sequence for each gene, each with 1000 bp, mHKY model with rate heterogeneity as 0.5, transition/transversion ratio as 2, and the state frequency for ACGT as 0.25, 0.25, 0.25, 0.25. Because this is a simple tutorial, all parameters are hard-coded with no replicates. Those parameters are tested mannually so the simulated sequences are not too divergent. To simulate the molecular sequence, the below script could be run: 
```
./example/simulation/simulation_seqs.sh <executable_folder> <configuration_folder> <output_folder>
```
Here, executable_folder is the folder which stores the binary executable for both simphy and seqgen softwares, and configuration_folder is the directory with the configuration file, and output folder is the folder to store the output. To make sure consistent results, both softwares are run in random seed at 1234. 

PS: It is noted that a lot of the codes for simulation are hard-coded in this simulation scripts, including replicate (no replicate), seed, number of genes, and all parameters. My next step for modification is to have customized codes to simulate whatever data the users want to play with. Thus, the user could customize the codes with designes length, rate distribution, number of taxa, seeds, and number of genes. It is also noted that the parameters used in simulation would be better to be estimated from a real dataset. 

I then concatenated the resulting nexus files into one alignment per species and changed them into fastq.gz file. The codes used for this process is saved in one of my private repos, so it is not shown here before the repo got published. 